automated_tests/README.md, before:

## Cypress-framework: UI testing

## Pre requisites

You need to have npm installed to be able to run the tests on your local machine.

## Usage

Install npm & cypress dependencies
- cd `automated_tests` directory
- run `npm install` (install specific ver. `npm install cypress@10.9.0`)
- run `npm run cy_verify` to verify cypress installation (ver. should be: "^10.9.0")

## Before beginning the test:

Add email and phone/mobile number here : 
- EOI : `../../automated_tests/cypress/fixtures/eoi_bodytext_secrets.json` 
- UAM : `../../automated_tests/cypress/fixtures/uam_appdata.json`

## Test Runner

- run `npm run cy_open` to open cypress test runnner
- select and run test(s)
- select `run_all_specs` to run all tests

## Target environment to test
By default, these cypress tests will be run against a local version of the application on your dev machine hosted at `http://127.0.0.1:8080/`.

If you want to run these tests against a different environment, e.g an AWS hosted dev environment or staging, you can pass the `BASE_URL` environment variable to the cypress commands, e.g. `BASE_URL="https://foo.example.com/" npm run cy_open`

## Authentication
If cypress needs to authenticate requests with HTTP basic auth, for example to run against the staging AWS environment, you can pass the `CYPRESS_USERNAME` and `CYPRESS_PASSWORD` environment variables to the cypress commands

## Command line

- run `all=specs npm run e2e` to run all tests using default Electron broswer and open the report
- run `npm run view_report` to view a report on browser
- run `npm run headless` to run all tests headless mode
- run `npm run delete_report` to delete report directory

## Run a single spec file

### EOI:

- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_e2e_hp_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_address_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_adults_children_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_backlink_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_bedrooms_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_date_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_error_label_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_legacy_journey_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_links_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_phone_number_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_postcode_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_self_assessment_uhp_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/Service/service_cookies_spec.cy.js`

#### run all EOI specs

- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/run_all_eoi_specs.cy.js`

### UAM: 

- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_e2e_hp_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_eli_uhp_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_links_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_childs_accomm_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_childs_details_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_labels_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_res_details_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_your_details_spec.cy.js`

#### Run all UAM specs

- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/run_all_uam_specs.cy.js`   

## Run with a specific browser

- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_e2e_hp.cy.js --browser chrome`

## Automation regression pack

`https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1CS-Tfx93y1AGcTiwwCIICH4T2sLGrEl3q8RllyhLpPE/edit?pli=1#gid=0`

Commit message:

Delete the "all EOI/UAM specs" spec
This duplicates the tests running when running all specs with cypress (e.g. with `npm run headless`)

automated_tests/README.md, after:

## Cypress-framework: UI testing

## Pre requisites

You need to have npm installed to be able to run the tests on your local machine.

## Usage

Install npm & cypress dependencies
- cd `automated_tests` directory
- run `npm install` (install specific ver. `npm install cypress@10.9.0`)
- run `npm run cy_verify` to verify cypress installation (ver. should be: "^10.9.0")

## Before beginning the test:

Add email and phone/mobile number here : 
- EOI : `../../automated_tests/cypress/fixtures/eoi_bodytext_secrets.json` 
- UAM : `../../automated_tests/cypress/fixtures/uam_appdata.json`

## Test Runner

### Manually
To manually run selected tests:

- run `npm run cy_open` to open cypress test runnner
- select and run test(s)

To run all tests from the console:
- run `npm run headless`

## Target environment to test
By default, these cypress tests will be run against a local version of the application on your dev machine hosted at `http://127.0.0.1:8080/`.

If you want to run these tests against a different environment, e.g an AWS hosted dev environment or staging, you can pass the `BASE_URL` environment variable to the cypress commands, e.g. `BASE_URL="https://foo.example.com/" npm run cy_open`

## Authentication
If cypress needs to authenticate requests with HTTP basic auth, for example to run against the staging AWS environment, you can pass the `CYPRESS_USERNAME` and `CYPRESS_PASSWORD` environment variables to the cypress commands

## Command line

- run `all=specs npm run e2e` to run all tests using default Electron broswer and open the report
- run `npm run view_report` to view a report on browser
- run `npm run headless` to run all tests headless mode
- run `npm run delete_report` to delete report directory

## Run a single spec file

### EOI:

- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_e2e_hp_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_address_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_adults_children_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_backlink_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_bedrooms_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_date_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_error_label_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_legacy_journey_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_links_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_phone_number_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_postcode_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_self_assessment_uhp_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/Service/service_cookies_spec.cy.js`

### UAM: 

- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_e2e_hp_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_eli_uhp_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_links_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_childs_accomm_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_childs_details_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_labels_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_res_details_spec.cy.js`
- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/UAM/uam_your_details_spec.cy.js`

## Run with a specific browser

- `npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/integration/EOI/eoi_e2e_hp.cy.js --browser chrome`

## Automation regression pack

`https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1CS-Tfx93y1AGcTiwwCIICH4T2sLGrEl3q8RllyhLpPE/edit?pli=1#gid=0`
